# 0253. Meeting Rooms II

Given an array of meeting time intervals consisting of start and end times `[[s1,e1],[s2,e2],...]` (si < ei), find the minimum number of conference rooms required.

**Example 1:**

```
Input: [[0, 30],[5, 10],[15, 20]]
Output: 2
```

**Example 2:**

```
Input: [[7,10],[2,4]]
Output: 1
```

**NOTE:** input types have been changed on April 15, 2019. Please reset to default code definition to get new method signature.

## Analysis

> In interview for this problem, it is always a good idea to first run through an example.

Given [0, 30] [1, 5] [2, 3] [7, 10], how to allocate the rooms?

1. Adding [0, 30]: Allocate first room to [0, 30].
2. Adding [1, 5]: check if any room that isn't used during 1 to 5 (no existing room satisfy, so allocate another new room).
3. Adding [2, 3]: do the same check as 2, but not the earliest used room now changed to room 2 (will be free on 5), but we still cannot attend the meeting because of overlap, so allocate a new room.
4. Adding [7, 10]: now we check if any room that can finish the meeting earlier than 7, and we find [1, 5], so we can reuse this room for [7, 10].

**Note**: on step 4, why don't we just reuse [2, 3]? Yes, you can reuse that room, but there is a chance that some other interval whose start is less than 5 and greater 3 -- [4, 5]. If we reuse [2, 3], we cannot know if this new interval can be reused by [2,3] since we only keep track of the latest used room.

In order to keep track of the **earliest finishing time** from all the allocated room (from this we can determine if we need to allocate a new room), we can use a priority queue to keep track of all the allocated rooms' ending times (note that it will be a min-heap since we want to the smallest element from the queue). Before we add time to the priority queue, we also need to make sure that for every two intervals i and interval i + 1, interval i's start should be less or equal than interval i + 1's start, so that we can allocate in sequence in a greedy manner so that we can make sure our allocation is always the most optimal.

* Time: $O(n \times \log(n))$ (sort + priority queue)
* Space: $O(n)$ for sorting and priority queue.

## Code

```c++
int minMeetingRooms(vector<vector<int>> intervals) {
    // write your solution here
    auto cmp = [](vector<int>& l, vector<int>& r) {return l[0] < r[0];};
    sort(intervals.begin(), intervals.end(), cmp);
    priority_queue<int, vector<int>, greater<int> > pq;
    for (auto i : intervals) {
      if (!pq.empty() && pq.top() <= i[0]) pq.pop(); // if the earliest ending room is less than current room, we can reuse that room
      pq.push(i[1]); // allocate new room
    }
    return pq.size();
  }
```