# 174. Dungeon Game

The demons had captured the princess (**P**) and imprisoned her in the bottom-right corner of a dungeon. The dungeon consists of M x N rooms laid out in a 2D grid. Our valiant knight (**K**) was initially positioned in the top-left room and must fight his way through the dungeon to rescue the princess.

The knight has an initial health point represented by a positive integer. If at any point his health point drops to 0 or below, he dies immediately.

Some of the rooms are guarded by demons, so the knight loses health (*negative* integers) upon entering these rooms; other rooms are either empty (*0's*) or contain magic orbs that increase the knight's health (*positive* integers).

In order to reach the princess as quickly as possible, the knight decides to move only rightward or downward in each step.

 

**Write a function to determine the knight's minimum initial health so that he is able to rescue the princess.**

For example, given the dungeon below, the initial health of the knight must be at least **7** if he follows the optimal path `RIGHT-> RIGHT -> DOWN -> DOWN`.

| -2 (K) | -3   | 3      |
| ------ | ---- | ------ |
| -5     | -10  | 1      |
| 10     | 30   | -5 (P) |

 

**Note:**

- The knight's health has no upper bound.
- Any room can contain threats or power-ups, even the first room the knight enters and the bottom-right room where the princess is imprisoned.

## Analysis

For each cell, we have three requirements fullfill:

> HP is short for health

1. `HP > 0`
2. `HP + w[i][j + 1] > 0` if you want to move right
3. `HP + w[i + 1][j] > 0` if you want to move downward

However, you don't need to satisfy case 2 and case 3 at the same time, and you should always choose the direction that could make you easier to reach to your goal. What I mean by "easier" is that `HP` is the least in all three cases.



So we can define a `f` 2D array that represents the minimal health for each cell. To find out the initial minimal health, we just return `f[0][0]`, and using the rules we have defined previously,  the induction rule is:

`f[i][j]=min(1,f[i][j]-w[i][j+1],f[i][j]-w[i+1][j])`



After resolving all the edge cases, we can return our answer.

* Time: $O(m \times n)$
* Space: $O(m \times n)$

## Code

```c++
class Solution {
public:
    int calculateMinimumHP(vector<vector<int>>& d) {
        int res = INT_MAX, m = d.size(), n = d[0].size();
        vector<vector<int>> f(m, vector<int>(n, INT_MAX));
        for (int i = m - 1; i >= 0; --i)
            for (int j = n - 1; j >= 0; --j) {
                // this is the starting point
              	if (i == m - 1 && j == n - 1) f[i][j] = max(1, 1 - d[i][j]);
                else {
                    // check right
                 	 	if (i + 1 < m) f[i][j] = f[i + 1][j] - d[i][j];
                    // check down
                  	if (j + 1 < n) f[i][j] = min(f[i][j], f[i][j + 1] - d[i][j]);
                    // check 1
                  	f[i][j] = max(1, f[i][j]);
                }
            }
        return f[0][0];
    }
};
```

