# Count Complete Tree Nodes

Given a **complete** binary tree, count the number of nodes.

**Note:** 

**Definition of a complete binary tree from [Wikipedia](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Binary_tree#Types_of_binary_trees):**
In a complete binary tree every level, except possibly the last, is completely filled, and all nodes in the last level are as far left as possible. It can have between 1 and 2h nodes inclusive at the last level h.

**Example:**

```
Input: 
    1
   / \
  2   3
 / \  /
4  5 6

Output: 6
```

## Analysis

Complete binary tree has the special property: at the last level of the binary tree, the nodes will be populated from left to right. There could be empty/null from any points from the last level, but from the first empty/null node, all the rest to the right has to be empty/null as well.



If we are given a perfect binary tree, we can use $2^{height} - 1$ to calculate the total number of nodes from the tree. The problem now breaks down to find starting at which position, the rest nodes of the leaf nodes become empty/null. We can use binary search to find the pivot node.



1. start from left and right, and traverse $\log(n)$ levels to see the heights of left and right.
2. if left and right heights are the same, it means we already in perfect binary tree -> we can use the formula to calculate the number of nodes in the current subtree.
3. if left = right + 1, then the pivot should be somewhere between left and right, we should recursively call both.

* Time: $\log^2 (n)$
* Space: $\log(n)$ -> it takes $\log(n)$ times to find the pivot thus it will call the recursion $\log(n)$ times.

## Code

```c++
/**
 * Definition for a binary tree node.
 * struct TreeNode {
 *     int val;
 *     TreeNode *left;
 *     TreeNode *right;
 *     TreeNode() : val(0), left(nullptr), right(nullptr) {}
 *     TreeNode(int x) : val(x), left(nullptr), right(nullptr) {}
 *     TreeNode(int x, TreeNode *left, TreeNode *right) : val(x), left(left), right(right) {}
 * };
 */
class Solution {
public:
    int countNodes(TreeNode* root) {
        if (!root) return 0;
        int l = 0, r = 0;
        TreeNode *a = root, *b = root;
        while (a) {
            a = a -> left;
            l++;
        }
        while (b) {
            b = b -> right;
            r++;
        }
        if (l == r) return pow(2, l) - 1;
        return countNodes(root -> left) + countNodes(root -> right) + 1;
    }
};
```

